For some time, I've had varying technical interests. On one hand, I've been coding since sixth grade; on the other, I've been studying mechanical engineering. These interests meld, driving me towards courses like Computational Materials Science and endeavours like my personal website.

Indeed, some of my most memorable school experiences involved combinations of mechanical engineering concepts and computational principles. There was that time when I developed a numerical optimizing tool for a gearbox. I recently built a pin-jointed structure simulator, and am currently working on a CFD model for my mechanical engineering capstone. My undergraduate research project involved the fitting of an interatomic potential to a set of DFT calculations for later molecular dynamics simulations.

More recently, I've been looking at getting more involved with the software side of my interests. This is partially due to several projects with my peers who are more involved in the field, but also due to my growing curiosities. As I'm nearing the end of my mechanical engineering undergrad, I have a good amount of experience and formal training in the discipline. It would be fascinating to have some more projects related to computing especially since I've had comparatively fewer opportunities to exercise this interest.

One can then imagine my surprise when my undergraduate research project supervisor, Professor Béland mentioned the possibility of a co-supervised Master's project with ECE professor Ryan Grant. A potential collaboration involving the two would combine Professor Béland's specialties in atom-level simulations, and with Professor Grant's specialties in algorithm parallelization and high-performance computing.

Moreover, it would offer the perfect opportunity to further explore my interests. The proposed project involves the parallelization of several aspects of the training scheme of the MTP model which are currently implemented as serial code. The MTP is a machine-learning interatomic potential which has shown promising results within the Nuclear Materials group. By further developing the training scheme for better performance in parallel environments, the active training of the MTP could potentially be used for more practical problems. The research would give me experience in various aspects of programming such as machine learning, concurrency, algorithms, and high-performance computing—all tools which appeal to my core interest in applying computational methods. All this is potentially achieved while expanding on prior experiences and interest in mechanical and materials engineering.

Both professors mentioned the possibility of taking several courses in Computing and Computer Engineering. These experiences would augment the practical experience I'd gain in the research project with more rigorous training and theory. Alongside, prior engineering experience and professional experience, I believe the Master's program could result in immense personal growth.

Besides, personal gains from the potential uses of the MTP and machine-learning potentials are beneficial to scientific and engineering advances. Within the Nuclear Materials group, MTP usage is relevant for molten salt nuclear reactor prediction. Molecular dynamics and Metropolis Monte Carlo are useful for the prediction of the properties of new materials. Another huge area of potential application is biological systems and pharmaceutical development. And although my work might be ultimately limited in scope, I would be thrilled to contribute in these endeavours.
